# IoT-BASED WIRELESS SECURITY SYSTEM FOR THEFT PREVENTION

The Internet ofThings is a significant component of many modern applications, including smart homes and smart transportation systems. The main issue that individuals in society are dealing with is vehicle theft.Currently almost of the public having an own vehicle, theft is happening on parking and sometimes driving insecurity places. The safe of vehicles is extremely essential for public vehicles. According to a statistical assessment, only one out of every four stolen vehicles gets found. The current solutions lock the car with a key and a remote. There are CCTV cameras everywhere, and they are used to find the stolen car. But not every location has CCTV cameras. Quick recovery of a stolen car can be facilitated by having control of the vehicle and knowing where it is even after theft.The proposed IoT-based solution for vehicle theft prevention and recovery presents a promising approach to addressing the pressing issue of vehicle theft in society. It is a car anti-theft device; if a car is stolen or lost, we may quickly locate its position (longitude and latitude) using the GPS in that direction. The IOT system, which is interfaced with a controller and receives the command from the smartphone, based on the received command the vehicle gets slows down and immobilizes the ignition motor. It offers the following features: door lock controls, remote car immobilization, and tracking and recovery of stolen vehicles. If a car is stolen or lost, the designed system can aid in vehicle recovery because it is dependable, affordable, Secured, Reliable, Low cost and easy to use.
